#summary REST API for searching and retrieving documents on eXist-db repository.
#labels Phase-Implementation

<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

= Introduction =

This API exposes all Bungeni documents on eXist-db in a RESTful manner.

= Pre-requisites =

 * [http://svn.code.sf.net/p/exist/code/trunk/eXist eXist-db] r 17081 and up. (see [SettingUpExistForBungeni])
 * [BungeniXQFramework Bungeni XQuery Framework]

= Usage =

The API currently accepts POST requests only and is accessble on the URL

{{{
http://localhost:8088/exist/restxq/ontology
}}}

The API accepts 7 parameters
  * *group* - Generic categorization of Bungeni documents
  * *type* - Bungeni document type e.g. Bill, Question
  * *offset* - An integer. Return subset of documents returned from this poiition
  * *limit* - An integer. Limit the number of documents to return
  * *status* - trim result-set based on status parameter given
  * *daterange* - trim result-set based on statuDate field of the documents
  * *search* - text

It returns a JSON Object with query information given and returned documents from the search text given.

The `group` and `type` parameters are case sensitive.

== Valid Group Types ==

default is `*`

`document`, `group`, `membership`


== Valid Document Types ==
default is `*`

`Bill`, `Question`, `AgendaItem`, `Motion`, `TabledDocument`, `Committee`, `PoliticalGroup`

you can search on multiple-specific document types by separating with a comma.

The default value indicates what the API uses internally if the parameter is not supplied by the REST client.

= Examples using cURL =

{{{
curl -i -X POST --data "type=*&search=\"Committee status make available\"&offset=1&limit=1" http://localhost:8088/exist/restxq/ontology -v
}}}
searches for the phrase *"Committee status make available"* in all documents but limits return to only one document from the result set.

{{{
curl -i -X POST --data "type=AgendaItem,Bill&search=\"Committee status make available\"&offset=1&limit=5" http://localhost:8088/exist/restxq/ontology -v
}}}
searches for the phrase *"Committee status make available"* in agenda-item and bill documents but limits return to five document from the result set.